Add wopi documentation (#340)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/deployment/wopi/wopi.adoc

> = Office Applications using WOPI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Office Applications Using WOPI
```

:toc: right
:wopi_subdir: /ocis_wopi
:download-gh-directory-url: https://download-directory.github.io
:traefik_url: https://traefik.io/traefik/
:nginx_url: https://www.nginx.com
:apache_url: https://www.apache.org

> :description: Infinite Scale uses the WOPI protocol to integrate office applications. This document describes the general flow and basic settings used behind.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:description: Infinite Scale uses the WOPI protocol to integrate office applications. This document describes the general flow and basic settings used.
```

== Introduction

> {description} For more details on possible configuration values see the xref:conf-examples/office-integration.adoc[Office Integration] document at the configuration examples. 

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to add a reference to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Application_Open_Platform_Interface or even https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/office_protocols/ms-wopi/6a8bb410-68ad-47e4-9dc3-6cf29c6b046b here to add some background about what WOPI actually is?

Author: added

For the time being, the supported office applications are:

* Collabora

> * OnlyOffice

Reviewer 4: What about MS Office 365?

Author: I have been told by Willy, as far I remember, that only the above are supported. And I know from the past, that MS Office 365 support is "special". Lets have a chat/video about that. Note that we can add the line item with MS Office at any time afterwards.

Author: Also see the [ownCloud Server](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.11/admin_manual/enterprise/collaboration/msoffice-wopi-integration.html#introduction) docs:

...If you want to integrate the [Office 365 (cloud)](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office) version of Microsoft Office Online, you need to [get in touch with us](https://owncloud.com/support)...

And the comment in [Configuring the WOPI App in ownCloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.11/admin_manual/enterprise/collaboration/msoffice-wopi-integration.html#configuring-the-wopi-app-in-owncloud)

Author: I have an idea how to integrate O365 into this document, but I will file an additional PR.

== General Information

Infinite Scale can be configured to use office applications via a browser in an iframe. Depending on the use case and among other things, administrators can:

* provide multiple applications from different vendors in parallel,
* define which icons are used for which applications,
* define which app is preferred to open a file.

Configured applications can be selected by users when opening a document via the WebUI. The list of available applications to open a file show an icon and its app name.

Office applications are :

* provided via the xref:{s-path}/app-provider.adoc[App-Provider Service] because they are not able to register themself, see the xref:#wopi-coniguration-examples[docker-copmpose.yml] file. 

> * configured for the use with the WebUI via the xref:{s-path}/app-registry.adoc[App-Registry Service]. Here, the graphical representation details like icons, app names, mimetypes, app to open etc is set, see the xref:#wopi-coniguration-examples[app-registry.yaml] file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* configured for use with the WebUI via the xref:{s-path}/app-registry.adoc[App-Registry Service]. Here, the default office app is set. For more information see the xref:#wopi-coniguration-examples[app-registry.yaml] file.
```

> * configured for the use with the WebUI via the xref:{s-path}/app-registry.adoc[App-Registry Service]. Here, the graphical representation details like icons, app names, mimetypes, app to open etc is set, see the xref:#wopi-coniguration-examples[app-registry.yaml] file.

Reviewer 4: I think that is way to verbose. The App Provider should/will be handled later with documentation about extensions I would say. Can you shorten this?

> * configured for the use with the WebUI via the xref:{s-path}/app-registry.adoc[App-Registry Service]. Here, the graphical representation details like icons, app names, mimetypes, app to open etc is set, see the xref:#wopi-coniguration-examples[app-registry.yaml] file.

Reviewer 5: This is not correct. The mimetypes are registered in the app provider by calling the discovery endpoint of the office application. The app registry is only needed to set the default app.

Author: > The app registry is only needed to set the default app

This is not correct. `app-registry` defines which apps are available for which mimetypes, which icons they show, which names they get, which app is default when not overrided by the user etc and all that info is shown as list items in the webUI for the user whe he selects to open a file. See the example below.

```
  - mime_type: application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.text
    extension: odt
    name: OpenDocument
    description: OpenDocument text document
    icon: ''
    default_app: Collabora
    allow_creation: true
```
This was part of the intense discussion with Willy.

Reviewer 5: Still not correct. The app registry config is optional. It works without that. There are two different things:

1) Registering the mimetype -> done via autodiscovery https://onlyoffice.ocis-wopi.latest.owncloud.works/hosting/discovery
2) Providing the actions for the new button and the default app settings. -> app-registry config

Reviewer 5: @mmattel Can you clarify this on a follow up PR?

I think it might be confusing to see more mimetypes attached to apps than provided by the app-registry.yaml

The app-registry.yaml only configures a subset for the "+ New" action. The File open Action and the logo for the file open action are defined otherwise.

Author: sure

Author: Note that sources like app-registry is/was provided by @wkloucek

== WOPI Flow

> The following two sections describe the wopi integration in an overview and a more detailed image to get a better understanding of which components are involved and which basic settings need to be set. You can also extrapolate how to scale office application servers and how to use various office applications in parallel. Note that only a few basic configuration options are shown in the images below to support the process flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following two sections describe the WOPI integration in an overview and a more detailed image to get a better understanding of which components are involved and which basic settings need to be set. You can also extrapolate how to scale office application servers and how to use various office applications in parallel. Note that only a few basic configuration options are shown in the images below to support the process flow.
```

> The following two sections describe the wopi integration in an overview and a more detailed image to get a better understanding which components are involved and which basic settings need to be set. You can also extrapolate how to scale office application servers respectively how to use various office applications in parallel. Note that only a view basic configuration options are shown in the images below to support the process flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following two sections describe the wopi integration in an overview and a more detailed image to get a better understanding of which components are involved and which basic settings need to be set. You can also extrapolate how to scale office application servers and how to use various office applications in parallel. Note that only a few basic configuration options are shown in the images below to support the process flow.
```

=== WOPI Overview

> This image gives a brief overview which components and settings are involved. It also shows where parts of an URL are defined, how an URL is assembled, respectively which component is using which part of the URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This image gives a brief overview of which components and settings are involved. It also shows where parts of an URL are defined, how an URL is assembled, and which component is using which part of the URL.
```

image::deployment/wopi/wopi-overview.svg[WOPI Overview Diagram]

> === WOPI Detailed 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== WOPI in Detail
```

> === WOPI in Detail

Reviewer 4: Again, to verbose. Please keep the information about the WOPI protocol here limited, as that is not the scope of this document. 
Rather put that into the dev docs.

Reviewer 3: I agree with this. While the detailed diagram is quite interesting, I wonder if we really need that level of detail here. It is also somewhat hard to digest without any further description IMO. I think it would be much better live in the dev docs.

Author: fixed, see my comment below

> With this image, administrators can get a more detailed view about the components involved down to a service level. It also includes steps triggered by the user repsectively the requests and responses on a generic level. It shows how a reverse proxy fits into the picture. The reverse proxy is exemplary per level, where in reality, it usually is a redundant proxy environment configured per level. You can use any proxy of your choice like {traefik_url}[Traefik], {nginx_url}[nginx] or {apache_url}[Apache].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this image, administrators can get a more detailed view about the components involved down to a service level. It also includes steps triggered by the user and the requests and responses on a generic level. It shows how a reverse proxy fits into the picture. The reverse proxy is exemplary per level, where in reality, it usually is a redundant proxy environment configured per level. You can use any proxy of your choice like {traefik_url}[Traefik], {nginx_url}[nginx] or {apache_url}[Apache].
```

image::deployment/wopi/wopi-detailed-flow.svg[WOPI Detailed Flow Diagram]

== WOPI Coniguration Examples

> * See below for an example wopi configuration using Docker Compose, to get a first impression of how the wopi configuration can be achieved. Both, _ocis environment variables_ and _ocis service configuration_ yaml files are used. See the xref:conf-examples/office-integration.adoc[Office Integration] document for an in depth explanation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* See below for an example WOPI configuration using Docker Compose, to get a first impression of how the WOPI configuration can be achieved. Both, _ocis environment variables_ and _ocis service configuration_ yaml files are used. See the xref:conf-examples/office-integration.adoc[Office Integration] document for an in depth explanation.
```

+
[tabs]
====
{compose_tab_1_tab_text}::
+
--
{composer-url}{compose_tab_1}{composer-final-path}{wopi_subdir}[Docker Compose WOPI deployment examples directory,window=_blank]

Using git version name: `{compose_tab_1}`
--
ifdef::use_tab_2[]
{compose_tab_2_tab_text}::
+
--
{composer-url}{compose_tab_2}{composer-final-path}{wopi_subdir}[Docker Compose WOPI deployment examples directory,window=_blank]

Using git version name: `{compose_tab_2}`
--
endif::[]
ifdef::use_tab_3[]
{compose_tab_3_tab_text}::
+
--
{composer-url}{compose_tab_2}{composer-final-path}{wopi_subdir}[Docker Compose WOPI deployment examples directory,window=_blank]

Using git version name: `{compose_tab_3}`
--
endif::[]
====
+
--

> Note that github will not let you download a single directory easily. You can get the examples using the following methods requiring minimum space, replace the version accordingly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that github will not let you download a single directory easily. You can get the examples using the following methods requiring minimum space. Replace the version accordingly:
```
